# Parallel Coordinates Data Visualization for NECB-2011 QAQC simulations
Creates a parallel coordinate plot for QAQC simulation data

Full Preview: https://canmet-energy.github.io/parallel-coordinates

This a desktop and web application using JavaScript which plots selected OpenStudio results as a parallel coordinate plot.
The main goal of this program is to display the end-uses data, annual and total cost, and ECM parameters applied to a building.
This tool can be used to visualize cost to benefit comparison of different  Energy Conservation Measures (ECM) that are applied to a building. 

This application would be used by technologists to optimize research and development of products and tools to construct buildings that are more efficient. 
This tool would also be used by designers and architects to optimize the building design for energy efficiency and economic feasibility 


## Features

The data visualization software is used to:
  + Produce visualizations of the end-uses for the OpenStudio models 
  + Display the 3D models of the simulated buildings in the browser 
  + Visualize data parameters for the Energy Conservation Measures applied
  + Preview annual/monthly energy uses data, load summary, HVAC profiles, etc.
  + Download the osm file for each datapoint
  + Compare the end-uses of the baseline and the ECMs applied building models; 
  + Compare two data-points and view the full results generated by OpenStudio Server.  

**To use external data sources see [/src/README.md](/src/README.md)**

## Requirements
  + NodeJS
Install NodeJS from [nodejs download page](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

To see if Node is installed, open the terminal and type `node -v`. This should print a version number.

Navigate to the root of the directory and run `cd src && npm install` to install the dependencies.

## Running a local NodeJS Server
Navigate to `src` folder and run the following code in the terminal to start the server

```bash
node server.js
```

Next go to `http://localhost:8080/` to access the Parallel coordinate plot

## Running a local Server with Docker

Navigate to current directory, and run

```bash
docker build -t nodeserver .
```

execute the following command to run the dockerized server

```
docker run -it -d -p 8080:8080 -v `pwd`:/dataviz --restart=always nodeserver
```

Next use your browser and go to `http://localhost:8080/` to access the Parallel coordinate plot


## Updating the PC Website hosted by GitHub 

After a commit to the master branch. run the following code from this root of this directory:

```
git subtree push --prefix src origin gh-pages
```

Source: https://gist.github.com/cobyism/4730490

## WARNINGS

Make sure the file path of this repository does not contain any spaces.
